This is a write up for the PID Controller project. Here I will discuss how I went about completing this project.

First I completed the functions in PID.cpp. This was very straight forward as I just needed to initialize the gain values and code the calculations for the error updates. I also added an 'init' variable to check for the first update. Since I initialized all the error terms to 0, the D term would have been incorrect if I left it as it was. Lastly I added some print statements to make sure everything was calculating and updating correctly. 

The next thing I had to do was to tune the gain values. I decided to do this by hand. First I looked at what happened when everything was set to 0. Obviously the car did nothing since the output for the steer value was 0. I then tried making all three gains 1. This caused the car to immediately make and extreme turn and drive completely off of the track.

Since I knew a smaller 'P' gain would cause the car to turn less drastically, I set 'I' and 'D' to 0 and tuned the P gain. I found that a value around 0.2 with the others set to 0 actually allowed the car to make it a good distance around the track. I kept this and began to tune the 'I' gain. It seemed like everything I tried except 0 was causing extreme fluctuations in the car's behavior. I set this back to 0 and tuned the D gain. 

Looking back at the lessons I noticed that the D gain was 15 times larger than the P gain. I tried values between 3.0-5.0 and all the way up to 10. This allowed the car to make it around the track. At this point I was having success with values of P=0.2, I=0.0, and D=3.0. I then went back and set the 'I' gain to a large value to see what would happen. Just like before the car immediately went off of the track. I decided to keep this low as the car was doing fine with it set to 0.

At this point I was using values P=0.2, I= 0.0005, D=3.0. The car was making it around the track but it wasn't as smooth as I would like. I experimented with higher P values, but even a value of 0.4 was causing more overshoot than I wanted. Anything much lower and the car was having trouble being reactive enough on the turns. I bumped this up a little bit to P=2.5 to keep the reactivity on the turns and bumped the D value up to D=3.5 to minimize the overshoot. The final values I settled on were P=0.25, I=0.0005, D=3.5. I am sure there is more room for tuning but these values were enough to keep the car on the track.